Revamp of What is ReBAC page (#249)
permitio/docs: docs/how-to/build-policies/rebac/overview.mdx

title: What is ReBAC?
---

Relationship Based Access Control (ReBAC) is a policy model focused on the way resources and identities (aka users) are connected to each other and between themselves.

## Policy as Graph

> Extanding on RBAC, ReBAC considers the relationships between identities and resources,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extanding on [RBAC](https://docs.permit.io/how-to/build-policies/rbac/overview), ReBAC considers the relationships between identities and resources,
```

allowing us to create authorization policies for **hierarchical structures**.
It is easiest to visualize ReBAC as a graph, with each node on the graph representing a resource or identity,
and each edge representing a relationship.

Graph-based authorization systems are perfect for mapping **hierarchies and nested relationships**.
Given their ability to manage high volumes of data while maintaining consistency,
these systems prove effective in large-scale environments.

:::tipExample

> The simples example for ReBAC is a file system (e.g. [Google Drive](https://docs.permit.io/modeling/google-drive)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest example for ReBAC is a shared file system (e.g. [Google Drive](https://docs.permit.io/modeling/google-drive)).
```

![Google Drive](/ui-videos/rebac/1.png)
This graph displays a folder titled `Bob’s Files`. Within that folder, there are two additional folders - `Bob’s Docs` and `Bob’s Pics`. Inside each of these folders are several files.
:::

To understand how ReBAC helps us manage access to these files, we need to understand two basic terms:

### Role Derivation

ReBAC allows us to derive authorization policies based on existing application-level relationships. Put in the simplest way, it allows us to create a policy like this:

```

> A `user` who is assigned the role of an `Owner` on a folder will also get the `Owner` role on every `file` within that `folder`.

Reviewer: This text is half-hidden as it is a long line. Worth putting it in a quote or something.

```

Creating policies based on relationships rather than roles or attributes saves us from having to create authorization policies on a per-instance basis.

> ### Resource Roles

Reviewer: I would start with the resource roles, as the motivation for role derivation is more explainable after (in RBAC you can also use role inheritance to get the equivalent of role derivation, and it could create some confusion.

To create ReBAC policies, we need to create roles **specific to a given resource**. This means that the role, and the permissions it carries, are only relevant in the context of that specific resource.
A resource role is formatted as `Resource#Role`.

The combination of **Resource Roles** and **Role Derivations** allows us to derive much more complex and granular roles that are perfectly tailored to handle hierarchies.

:::tipExample
In the context of our previous example,

```
A `user` who is assigned the role of an `Owner` on a `folder`
```

Will look like this: `Folder#Owner`.
![Resource Roles](/ui-videos/rebac/2.png)
:::

Relationships are at the core of ReBAC. Here are some of the most common relationship types and how they can be leveraged by ReBAC -

## Common Relationship Types

> ### Parent-Child Hierarchies

Reviewer: Please add couple of words regarding the infinity levels of parent-child hierarchies.
